Generate Kibana Serverless release notes for Jun 16-18 (#7035)
elastic/docs-content: release-notes/elastic-cloud-serverless/_snippets/2026-06-16/breaking-changes.md

﻿## June 16, 2026 [elastic-2026-06-16-breaking-changes]

::::{dropdown} Deprecate elastic.apm settings

>   For more information, check [#272414](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/272414).

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be at the end of the dropdown instead?

Author: Yeah, it looks a little odd so we can open an issue to improve but this is also a stop-gap way of rendering, so likely won't be a high priority to fix

>   **Impact:** Elastic APM instrumentation is deprecated and will be removed in future versions.

Reviewer: Not entirely sure, but shouldn’t this be singular as the act of removal affects one specific version after which subsequent versions just don't have the instrumentation?

```suggestion
  **Impact:** The Elastic APM instrumentation is deprecated and will be removed in a future version.
```

Reviewer: Unless maybe this is supposed to mean that the instrumentation will be removed in the next minor version (and, consequently, in all subsequent versions)? 🤔

>   **Action:** Use the OpenTelemetry instrumentation when collecting traces and metrics from Kibana. Refer to [these docs](https://www.elastic.co/docs/extend/kibana/kibana-debugging#_instrumenting_with_otel_traces) for more information about how to configure it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **Action:** Use the OpenTelemetry instrumentation when collecting traces and metrics from Kibana. Refer to [Instrumenting with OTel Traces](https://www.elastic.co/docs/extend/kibana/kibana-debugging#_instrumenting_with_otel_traces) for more information.
```
